Monopoly Compiled Statutes – v0.1.0.0
{Chapter} MCS {Section}

10 MCS 10 OBJECT The object of the game is to become the wealthiest player
through buying, renting and selling property.

10 MCS 20 EQUIPMENT The equipment consists of a board, 2 dice, tokens, 32
houses and 12 hotels. (a) There are Chance and Community Chest cards,
a Title Deed card for each property and play money.

10 MCS 30 PREPARATION Place the board on a table and put the Chance and
Community Chest cards face down on their allotted spaces on the
board. (a) Each player chooses one token to represent him/her while
traveling around the board. (b) Each player is given $1500 divided as follows: 2 each of
(b-1) $500. (b-2) $100. (b-3) $50 (c) 6 $20's. (d) 5 each of $10. (d-1) $5. (d-2) $1 (e) All remaining money and other equipment go to the Bank.

10 MCS 40 BANKER Select as Banker a player who will also make a good
Auctioneer. (a)A Banker who plays in the game must keep his/her
personal funds separate from those of the Bank. (b)When more than five
persons play, the Banker may elect to act only as Banker and
Auctioneer.

10 MCS 50 THE BANK Besides the Bank’s money, the Bank holds the Title Deed
cards and houses and hotels prior to purchase and use by the players. (a)The Bank pays salaries and bonuses. (b)It sells and auctions properties
and hands out their proper Title Deed cards; (b-1)it sells houses and hotels
to the players and loans money when required on mortgages. (c)The Bank collects all taxes, fines, loans and interest, and the price of all properties which it sells and auctions. (d)The Bank never “goes broke.” (e)If the Bank runs out of money, the Banker may issue as much more as may be needed by writing on any ordinary paper.

10 MCS 60 THE PLAY Starting with the Banker, each player in turn throws the dice. (a)The player with the highest total starts the play: (b)Place your token on the corner marked “GO,”
 
throw the dice and move your token in the direction of the arrow the number of spaces indicated by the dice.(c)After you have completed your play, the turn passes to the left.(d) The
tokens remain on the spaces occupied and proceed from that point on the player’s next turn. (e) Two or more tokens may rest on the same space at the same time. (f)According to the space your token reaches, you may be entitled to buy real estate or other properties or obliged to pay rent, pay taxes, draw a Chance or Community Chest card, “Go to Jail”, etc.(g)If you throw doubles, you move your token as usual, the sum of the
two dice, and are subject to any privileges or penalties pertaining to
the space on which you land.(h) Retaining the dice, throw again and
move your token as before. (i)If you throw doubles three times in
succession, move your token immediately to the space marked “In Jail” (see JAIL).

10 MCS 70 “GO” Each time a player’s token lands on or passes over GO, whether by throwing the dice or drawing a card, the Banker pays him/her a $200 salary.(a)The $200 is paid only once each time around the board. (b)However, if a player passing GO on the throw of the dice lands 2 spaces beyond it on Community Chest, or 7 spaces beyond it on Chance, and draws the “Advance to GO” card, he/she collects $200 for passing GO the first time and another $200 for reaching it the second time by instructions on the card.

10 MCS 80 BUYING PROPERTY Whenever you land on an unowned property you may buy that property from the Bank at its printed price. (a)You receive the Title Deed card showing ownership; place it face up in front of you.(c) If you do not wish to buy the property, the Banker sells it at auction to the highest bidder. (d)The buyer pays the Bank the amount of the bid in cash and receives the Title Deed card for that property. (e)Any player, including the one who declined the option to buy it at the printed price, may bid. (f)Bidding may start at any price.

10 MCS 90 PAYING RENT When you land on property owned by another
player, the owner collects rent from you in accordance with the list printed on its Title Deed card. (a) If the property is mortgaged, no rent can be collected. (b)When a property is mortgaged, its Title Deed card is placed face down in front of the owner.(c) It is an advantage to hold all the Title Deed cards in a color-group.(c-1)(E.G., Boardwalk and Park Place; or Connecticut, Vermont and Oriental Avenues) because the owner may then charge double rent for unimproved properties in that color-group. (d)This rule applies to unmortgaged properties even if another property in that color-group is mortgaged. (e)It is even more advantageous to have houses or hotels on properties because rents are much higher than for unimproved properties. (f) The owner may not collect the rent if he/she fails to ask for it before the second player following throws the dice.

 
10 MCS 100 “CHANCE” AND “COMMUNITY CHEST” When you land on either of these spaces, take the top card from the deck indicated, follow the instructions and return the card face down to the bottom of the deck.(a)The “Get Out of Jail Free” card is held until used and then returned to the bottom of the deck. (b)If the player who draws it does not wish to
use it, he/she may sell it, at any time, to another player at a price agreeable to both.

10 MCS 110 “INCOME TAX” If you land here you have two options: (a)You may
estimate your tax at $200 and pay the Bank, (a-1)or you may pay 10% of
your total worth to the Bank. (b)Your total worth is all your cash on
hand, printed prices of mortgaged and unmortgaged properties and cost price of all buildings you own.(c) You must decide which option you will take before you add up your total worth.

10 MCS 120 “JAIL” You land in Jail when (a) your token lands on the space marked “Go to Jail” (a-1) you draw a card marked “Go to Jail” or (a-2) you throw doubles three times in succession. (b)When you are sent to Jail you cannot collect your $200 salary in that
move since, regardless of where your token is on the board, you must move it directly into Jail. (c)Your turn ends when you are sent to Jail. (d)If you are not “sent” to Jail but in the ordinary course of play land on that space, you are “Just Visiting,” you incur no penalty, and you move ahead in the usual manner on your next turn. (e)You get out of Jail by (e-1) throwing doubles on any of your next three turns; (e-1a)if you succeed in doing this you immediately move forward the number of spaces shown by your doubles throw; (e-1b)even
though you had thrown doubles, you do not take another turn (e-2) using the “Get Out of Jail Free”  card if you have it; (e-3) purchasing the “Get Out of Jail Free” card from another player and playing it;(e-4) paying a fine of $50 before you roll the dice on either of your next two turns. (f)If you do not throw doubles by your third turn, you must pay the $50 fine. (g)You then get out of Jail and immediately move forward the number of spaces shown by your throw.(h)
Even though you are in Jail, you may buy and sell property, buy and sell houses and hotels and collect rents.

10 MCS 130 “FREE PARKING” A player landing on this place does not receive any money, property or reward of any kind. (a)This is just a “free” resting place.

10 MCS 140 HOUSES When you own all the properties in a color-group you
may buy houses from the Bank and erect them on those properties. (a) If you buy one house, you may put it on any one of those properties. (b)The next house you buy must be erected on one of the unimproved properties of this or any other complete color-group you
may own.(c) The price you must pay the Bank for each house is shown on your
Title Deed card for the property on which you erect the house.(d) The owner still collects double rent from an opponent who lands on the unimproved properties of his/her complete color-group. (e) Following the above rules, you may buy and erect at any time as
 
many houses as your judgement and financial standing will allow.(f) But
you must build evenly (f-1) I.E., you cannot erect more than one house on
any one property of any color-group until you have built one house on
every property of that group. (g)You may then begin on the second row
of houses, and so on, up to a limit of four houses to a property. (h)For
example, you cannot build three houses on one property if you have
only one house on another property of that group.(i) As you build evenly, you must also break down evenly if you sell houses back to the Bank (i-1)(see SELLING PROPERTY).

10 MCS 150 HOTELS When a player has four houses on each property of a
complete color-group, he/she may buy a hotel from the Bank and
erect it on any property of the color-group. (a) He/she returns the four
houses from that property to the Bank and pays the price for the hotel
as shown on the Title Deed card. (b)Only one hotel may be erected on
any one property.

10 MCS 160 BUILDING SHORTAGES When the Bank has no houses to sell,
players wishing to build must wait for some player to return or sell
his/her houses to the Bank before building. (a)If there are a limited
number of houses and hotels available and two or more players wish
to buy more than the Bank has, the houses or hotels must be sold at
auction to the highest bidder.

10 MCS 170 SELLING PROPERTY Unimproved properties, railroads and
utilities (but not buildings) may be sold to any player as a private
transaction for any amount the owner can get; (a)however, no property
can be sold to another player if buildings are standing on any
properties of that color-group.(b) Any buildings so located must be sold
back to the Bank before the owner can sell any property of that color-group.(c)Houses and hotels may be sold back to the Bank at any time for one-half  the price paid for them.(d)All houses on one color-group must be sold one by one, evenly, in reverse of the manner in which they were erected.(e)All hotels on one color-group may be sold at once, or they may be
sold one house at a time (e-1)(one hotel equals five houses), evenly, in reverse of the manner in which they were erected.

10 MCS 180 MORTGAGES Unimproved properties can be mortgaged through
the Bank at any time. (a)Before an improved property can be mortgaged, all the buildings on all the properties of its color-group must be sold back to the Bank at half price. (b)The mortgage value is printed on each Title Deed card. (c)No rent can be collected on mortgaged properties or utilities, but rent can be collected on unmortgaged properties in the same group.(d)In order to lift the mortgage, the owner must pay the Bank the amount of the mortgage plus
10% interest. (e)When all the properties of a color-group are no longer mortgaged, the owner may begin to buy back houses at full price. (f)The player who mortgages property retains possession of it and no other player may secure it by lifting the mortgage from the Bank. (g)However, the owner may sell this mortgaged property to another
player at any agreed price. (h)If you are the new owner, you may lift the
mortgage at once if you wish by paying off the mortgage plus 10% interest to the Bank. (i)If the mortgage is not lifted at once, you must pay the Bank 10% interest when you buy the property and if you lift the mortgage later you must pay the Bank an  additional 10% interest as well as the amount of the mortgage.

10 MCS 190 BANKRUPTCY You are declared bankrupt if you owe more than
you can pay either to another player or to the Bank. (a)If your debt is to
another player, you must turn over to that player all that you have of
value and retire from the game. (b)In making this settlement, if you own
houses or hotels, you must return these to the Bank in exchange for
money to the extent of one-half the amount paid for them; (b-1)this cash is
given to the creditor. (c)If you have mortgaged property you also turn
this property over to your creditor but the new owner must at once
pay the Bank the amount of interest on the loan, which is 10% of the
value of the property. (d)The new owner who does this may then, at
his/her option, pay the principal or hold the property until some later
turn, then lift the mortgage. (e)If he/she holds property in this way until
a later turn, he/she must pay the interest again upon lifting the
mortgage.(f)Should you owe the Bank, instead of another player, more than you
can pay (because of taxes or penalties) even by selling off buildings
and mortgaging property, you must turn over all assets to the Bank. In
this case, the Bank immediately sells by auction all property so taken,
except buildings. (g)A bankrupt player must immediately retire from the
game. (h)The last player left in the game wins.

10 MCS 200 MISCELLANEOUS Money can be loaned to a player only by the
Bank and then only by mortgaging property. (a)No player may borrow from or lend money to another player.

10 MCS 210 RULES for a SHORT GAME (60 to 90 minutes) There are five changed rules for this first Short Game. (a)During PREPARATION, the Banker shuffles then deals three Title
Deed cards to each player. (a-1)These are free, no payment to the Bank is required.
(b). You need only three houses (instead of four) on each lot of a complete color-group before you may buy a hotel. (b-1)Hotel rent remains the same. (b-2)The turn-in value is still one-half the purchase price, which in this game is one house less than in the regular game. (c) If you land in Jail you must exit on your next turn by (c-1)using a “Get Out of Jail Free” card if you have (or can buy) one; or (c-2) rolling doubles; or (c-3) paying $50. (c-4)Unlike the standard rules, you may try to roll doubles and, failing to do so, pay the $50 on the same turn.(d)The penalty for landing on “Income Tax” is a flat $200. (e)END OF GAME: The game ends when
one player goes bankrupt. (e-1)The remaining players value their property: (e-1a) cash on hand; (e-1b) lots,utilities and railroads owned, at the price printed on the board; (e-1c) any
mortgaged property owned, at one-half the price printed on the board; (e-1d) houses, valued at purchase price; (e-1e) hotels, valued at purchase price including the value of the three houses turned in. (e-2)The richest player wins!

10 MCS 220 ANOTHER GOOD SHORT GAME - TIME LIMIT GAME Before starting, agree upon a definite hour of termination, when the richest player will be declared the winner. (a)
Before starting, the Banker shuffles and cuts the Title Deed cards and
deals two to each player. (b)Players immediately pay the Bank the price of the properties dealt to them.
