MCS 100 CHANCE AND COMMUNITY CHEST CARDS
	Sec. 100-2 Landing Upon
	(a) When a Token lands on a Community Chest or Chance space, the Player must take the top card from the corresponding deck, follow the instructions and return the card face down to the bottom of the corresponding deck without shuffling.
	Sec. 100-10”Go to Jail”
	(a) Follow all applicable rules in MCS 120.
	Sec. 100-11”You Are Assessed for Street Repairs” or “Make General Repairs On All Your Property”
	(a) As soon as either of these cards are drawn, a Player's Properties may not be traded, exchanged, or otherwise transferred until all fees are paid in full to the center of the Monopoly Board.
	Sec. 100-12“Advance to Go”
	(a) The Player must immediately advance their Token to the Go square and collect $200 in accordance with MCS 70-10a.
	Sec. 100-13 Get Out of Jail Free
	(a) The “Get Out of Jail Free” card is held until used and then returned to the bottom of the deck.
	(b) If the Player who draws the card does not wish to use it, they may sell it, at any time, to any other Player at a price agreeable to both.
	Sec. 100-20”Grand Opera Opening”
	(a) The Player may collect $50 from every Player, including themselves.
	Sec. 100-30”Advance Token to Nearest Utility”
	(a) The Player must advance their Token to the nearest utility.
	(b) If the nearest utility is behind the Player's Token, the Token must advance forward around the Monopoly Board to the utility.
	(c) If the utility is owned by a Player, the Player drawing the card must roll the Dice and pay the Owner ten times the amount shown on the dice.
	(d) If the utility is owned by the Bank, the Player drawing the card may purchase it at the listed price.
	Sec. 100-32”You Have Been Elected Chairman of the Board”
	(a) The Player must pay each Player, including themselves, $50.
	Sec. 100-33”Advance Token to the Nearest Railroad”
	(a) The Player must advance their Token to the nearest railroad.
	(b) If the nearest railroad is behind the Player's Token, the Token must advance forward around the Monopoly Board to the railroad.
	(c) If the railroad is owned by a Player, pay the Player twice what they would otherwise be entitled to.
	(d) If the railroad is owned by the Bank the Player may buy the Property at the listed price.
	Sec. 100-34”Take a Walk on the Board Walk”
	(a) The Player must advance their Token to Board Walk.
	(b) If the Player passes Go, they must collect $200 as per MCS 70
